# The Influence of Using JSON Documents to the Performance of Data Manipulation Operations in the Example of PostgreSQL and MongoDB Database Management Systems
PostgreSQL and MongoDB are two popular database management systems (DBMSs) as of spring 2024. PostgreSQL is an SQL DBMS, while MongoDB is a NoSQL DBMS. JSON documents are a lightweight data-interchange format that allows data to be represented hierarchically. The goal of is to analyse the impact of using JSON documents to represent data in the database on the performance of data manipulation operations in PostgreSQL (version 16.2) and MongoDB (version 7.0.2).
Databases with different designs are created, utilizing JSON documents in four of them. Database scripts are design previously by Reiko Roopärg and the code for that can be found here: https://github.com/reroop/postgresql-and-mongodb-db-application. Test data is generated for three different dataset sizes and twenty data manipulation tasks are solved to obtain measurement results. These results will be used to determine if there is a correlation between the increase in data volume and query execution time. 
The study results in measurements for three different data volumes and five designs. The results for PostgreSQL and MongoDB designs are compared and analyzed. Based on the results, the author concludes that for all the designs, there is a linear relationship between the increase in data volume and query execution time in most experiments. Different database management systems, the use of JSON documents, and various designs yield different performance results depending on the specific data handling operations, experiments conducted, and hierarchical data presentation.

This GitHub repository contains files with PostgreSQL and MongoDB queries designed to generate, insert and copy random data into database tables and collections. As well as any experimental code that has been run for each database design. AI (ChatCPT and MS Copilot) is used to check some of the experiment code.
